So we're going to kind of, I'm not gonna
do this, I actually thought about getting
Postgres running again and
doing this with Postgres.
We're just gonna kind of fake Postgres for
a moment, but
this is how you would combine
Postgres together with Redis.
So what I wanna do is I wanna do that
caching thing that we were talking
about earlier.
Let's pretend that we have a Postgres
query that takes a very long time
to complete.
And we wanna do a caching
strategy on top of that.
So I have an rGet here,
we actually already did this one.
Let's do one more line here.
We're gonna do r with set.
But the way that we're gonna do an XQuery
is you actually have to do it with
an EX here.
So this is gonna be setex like this.
So this allows us to do
a set with an expiry, right.
They just made it
a different function name.
Okay, and what we're gonna do now is we're
gonna create a Function here called cache.
This function is gonna take in some
sort of long running function and
it's gonna create a cached version of it.
So it's gonna take in a key,
this is gonna be the key that
we're gonna store in Redis.
It's gonna take in some sort of ttl,
how many seconds we want it to survive,
and some sort of slow function
that we want to cache, oky.
So here we're going to, this is a function
that will return another function.
So we're going to return an async
function of some variety.
We can even call this cached
over here rather, cachedFn,
right, so that our stack traces
can look a little bit nicer.
And this is gonna have some variety
of props that are gonna come into
it that we're just going to pass on
to slow function when we call it.
So it's a higher order function, right?
It's a function that returns a function.
So what we're gonna do
now is we're gonna say,
const cachedResponse = await rGet(key).
So the first thing we're gonna do is,
do you have a cached
response already in Redis?
If yes, return it, right?
So you're gonna say if
cachedResponse here,
success return, we can call it a day,
return cachedResponse, right?
If not, then we're gonna say
const result = await and
we're gonna call slow function.
And we're gonna just spread out
those props that we got here, right.
So let's say this is
reading from the database.
We're just going to be passing in
the prompts that we got in into the slow
function here.
In this case, it doesn't matter, but
we're making a generic function
that we can use a bunch.
We're gonna say await rSetx,
cuz we want to set it to our cache,
so next time that we can hit it and
we're just gonna say key ttl result.
So whatever came back from the database,
that's what we're gonna cache.
And we're going to return result.
So this is great.
Now we have this generic cache
function that we can use anywhere that
we want to cache some sort of result.
So now we're just gonna make
an intentionally slow function.
We're gonna call this async function
verySlowAndEexpensivePostgresQL query,
something like that.
And you can imagine here, here you would
do a big ugly query for Postgres, right?
We're just gonna return
an artificially slow thing.
So first think I'm gonna say, I'm gonna
say console.log('oh no a very expensive
query No a very expensive query'),
just so we can know when it happens.
We can even put this up here as well and
say,right there, hooray, it is cached.
Okay, and then here, we're gonna say
const promise = new Promise (resolve).
And then we're just
gonna say setTimeout and
resolve with new Date,
.toUTCString.
So all it's gonna do is after five
seconds, it's gonna resolve with the date.
And then down here, we'll make it last,
I don't know, ten seconds or
something like that.
Okay, and then down here,
we're gonna say return promise.
So all this does right now, is it just
does a timeout and it'll resolve this
promise after ten seconds, right, to kind
of simulate a long running Postgres query.
So now here's the fun part.
We can say const cachedFn = cache,
('expensive_call') or
whatever you want to call it.
Yeah, we'll stick with that.
Let's say, we'll make this last for,
This will be in seconds, make it last for
ten seconds or something like that.
Let's make this one last five seconds.
So this will get cached for
ten seconds and then the ttl,
it'll expire, so very slow and
expensive function here.
So now we have this cachedFn,
which will cache the response for
this and then every 10 seconds,
it'll get you a fresh copy of that.
Okay, let's make a new row in our
app here, it's gonna be app.get/,
I don't know, get,
whatever you want to call it,
async (req, res).
And all it's gonna do here, it's gonna
say const data = await cachedFn.
And say res.json, Data status: 'ok'.end.
All right, so now we have this endpoint
/get, That will call that endpoint.
All right, so we need to stop and
start our server again.
And we're just gonna go directly to /get.
So notice this is gonna
take a second up here,
cuz the first time it's
gonna get a cache miss.
But now if I refresh it, it's really fast.
And then after ten seconds we're
gonna get another long time before,
there you go,
now it's taking a long time again.
So you can see here, no,
a very expensive query.
Hooray, it's cached and then down here
again, no, a very expensive query.
Okay, so
now let's simulate thundering herd, right.
So let's wait until this is gonna take a
long time, and now taking a bunch of time.
And I'm gonna refresh a bunch of times,
cuz I definitely wanna buy
that PlayStation 5, right?
I'm not upset [LAUGH].
But you can see here, I just thundering
herded all over this server, right.
Kind of my point here is
you need to be aware and
cautious of how you're doing
these kind of caching strategies.
This caching strategy is probably fine for
something that's gonna be hit relatively
infrequently, that your chances
of thundering herd are very low.
It's probably okay.
But if you're gonna be implementing
a black Friday flash sale,
not that I'm speaking from experience
here, you don't want to do it this way.
But again, yeah, this is one way you
can definitely do a caching strategy.